BBC Homepage
Skip to content
Accessibility Help
Sign in
Notifications
Home
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize
More menu
Search BBC
BBC Food
Home
Recipes
Budget Recipes
Chefs
Stories
Diets
Programmes
Techniques
My Food
More
Discover BBC Food

Search
Tupork Shakur (slow-cooked pork tacos)
An average of 5.0 out of 5 stars from 3 ratings
1 star
2 stars
3 stars
4 stars
5 stars
5.0
|
3 ratings
Rate this recipe
Tupork Shakur (slow-cooked pork tacos)

Save to My Food
Prepare
1-2 hours
Cook
over 2 hours
Serve
Makes 10 small tacos
Dietary
Dairy-freeEgg-freePregnancy-friendly
These spicy, succulent slow-cooked pork tacos are the kind of food you'll always want more of. Comforting with a lift from the pickled pink onions and spicy salsa.

This recipe is based on the Tupork Shakur dish served at Homies on Donkeys in Walthamstow, London. It has been adapted to make it easier to cook in a domestic kitchen.

Shopping list

Share

Print
Ingredients
For the pork
4 tbsp vegetable oil
1kg/2lb 4oz pork shoulder, deboned, skin removed and cut into 5cm/2in chunks, keeping plenty of fat
salt and black pepper
For the pickled onions
3 tbsp red wine vinegar
2 tsp caster sugar
generous pinch dried oregano
1 red onion, thinly sliced
For the chipotle sauce
100g/3½oz chipotle in adobo (see recipe tips, below)
400g tin chopped tomatoes
2 large vine tomatoes
50–75g/1¾–2⅔oz soft brown sugar (depending on how sweet you want it)
1 tsp garlic granules
1 tbsp balsamic vinegar
2 tsp all-purpose seasoning
For the spicy salsa
4 vine tomatoes, quartered
1 onion, chopped
1 red pepper, deseeded and chopped
¼ dried guajillo chilli
small handful fresh coriander, chopped
1 tbsp soft brown sugar
To serve
10 nixtamalized corn tortillas (about 15cm/6in in diameter)
sunflower oil, for frying (optional)
small handful chopped fresh coriander
Method
Preheat the oven to 160C/140C Fan/Gas 3.

For the pork, heat 2 tablespoons of the vegetable oil in a large, flameproof casserole over a high heat. Fry the pork in batches, cooking for a few minutes on each side until browned all over. Remove from the pan while you cook the rest of the meat, adding more oil as needed. Return all the pork to the casserole, cover with a lid and cook in the oven for 2½ hours, or until tender and falling apart (the fat in the meat should be sufficient to stop it drying out, but check after 30 minutes and add water if needed).

Meanwhile, make the pickled onions. Mix the red wine vinegar, caster sugar and oregano in a bowl. Add the sliced onions and stir together. Allow to pickle for 1–2 hours, or longer if time allows.

To make the chipotle sauce, place all the ingredients in a blender with some salt and whizz until smooth.

Pour the chipotle sauce over the cooked pork, cover with a lid and cook in the oven for a further hour. Remove from the oven and allow to rest in the sauce.

To make the salsa, increase the oven temperature to 200C/180C Fan/Gas 6. Place the tomatoes, onions and peppers in a roasting tray. Drizzle with a little oil and season with salt and pepper. Roast for 40 minutes, adding the dried chilli for the last 10 minutes of cooking. Remove from the oven and pick out the chilli. Place the dried chilli into a bowl and pour over boiling water to rehydrate for 10 minutes, then chop. Transfer the roasted vegetables into a blender, along with the rehydrated chilli, the coriander, 2 tablespoons water and a pinch of salt. Blend until smooth and season to taste.

To serve, heat the tortillas over a flame for 1–2 minutes on each side until charred and starting to crisp. Alternatively, heat in a hot frying pan with a little sunflower oil. Pull the pork into strips using two forks.

To assemble the tacos, top each tortilla with some chipotle pulled pork, then add salsa and pickled onions. Scatter over the fresh coriander and serve with extra salsa alongside (any leftover salsa can be kept in the fridge for up to 7 days).

Recipe tips
You can find chipotle in adobo online and from specialist suppliers.

Related recipes
Chipotle chicken burrito bowl By Shelina PermallooChipotle chicken burrito bowl
By Shelina Permalloo
Best chipotle recipes (18)

Chipotle chicken burrito bowl
Pulled chicken tacos with chocolate mole sauce. By Sue QuinnPulled chicken tacos with chocolate mole sauce
By Sue Quinn
taco recipes (56)

Pulled chicken tacos with chocolate mole sauce
Cauliflower and black bean tacos. By Sarah RossiCauliflower and black bean tacos
By Sarah Rossi
taco recipes (56)

Cauliflower and black bean tacos
Fish tacos 'Ensenada' By Rick SteinFish tacos 'Ensenada'
By Rick Stein
taco recipes (56)

Fish tacos 'Ensenada'
Deep-fried crispy tacos with duck confit and relish. By Matt TebbuttDeep-fried crispy tacos with duck confit and relish
By Matt Tebbutt
taco recipes (56)

Deep-fried crispy tacos with duck confit and relish
Carnitas. By The Hairy BikersCarnitas
By The Hairy Bikers
pork shoulder recipes (50)

Carnitas
Melting spiced pork and bean stew. By Shivi RamoutarMelting spiced pork and bean stew
By Shivi Ramoutar
pork shoulder recipes (50)

Melting spiced pork and bean stew
Pork pozole By Karla ZazuetaPork pozole
By Karla Zazueta
pork shoulder recipes (50)

Pork pozole
This recipe is from...
Britain's Top Takeaways. 6. Mexican on BBC TwoBritain's Top Takeaways
6. Mexican
Honest grub, honest opinions. Terrific takeaways compete to win the approval of five hungry families - judging from the comfort of their own sofas. It's time to tuck in!
BBC Two

Britain's Top Takeaways
Recipes from this episode
Squash and sweet potato quesadilla
Instagram
Instagram Logo
Facebook
Facebook Logo
Pinterest
Pinterest Logo
FAQs about BBC Food
Summer Recipes
Step into summer with this collection of delicious recipes

Explore the collection
Women's Euro 2025
Watch live and highlights of every match
Attribution
iPlayer

Life off the pitch with Tooney & Russo
Attribution
Sounds

Leah Williamson tells an inspiring tale
Attribution
iPlayer

All the action from the summer of sport
Attribution
Sounds

Home
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize
CBBC
CBeebies
Food
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Make an editorial complaint
BBC emails for you
Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.